# 2.2 Game Design Document

TK - placeholder - in progress

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="✓ TASK" %}
Your team will generate a more detailed design for your proposed video game by creating a game design document.

The game design document builds upon your game treatment by adding specifics for all of your game's design elements:

* **Structural Elements** — which determine your game's mechanics
* **Dramatic Elements** — which determine your game's story
* **Artistic Elements** — which determine your game's aesthetics

The game design document will help guide the prototyping of your game, including the development of your game code and assets \(art and sound\).

Your team will prototype its game in a series of stages:

* Conceptual Prototype → Physical Prototype → Digital Prototype

The game design document is your team's conceptual prototype. It describes your game design in detail and represents your team's mental model of the game.

In the next task assignment, your team will use its game design document to createOnce your team has a first draft of its game design document, your team will create a **physical prototype** — a paper version of your game that you'll use to demonstrate and test the game design.

Even though a paper version of a video game may seem unusual, you can actually learn a lot from the paper prototype — before you do any coding or create any digital artwork.

Based on the playtesting of your paper prototype, your team will refine your game's design \(and update the game design document\). This will put your team in a better position to create your **digital prototype** — a working computer version of the game.

* Start by transferring the information from your game treatment. Your team may need \(or want\) to revise some of this information based on the feedback received in the previous assignment.
* Brainstorm, discuss, decide, and document the game design elements for your team's concept.
* The goal is to have a sufficiently clear sense of your team's game's design, so you're ready to create a paper prototype of it for testing and feedback.

### **❏ Deliverable**

Submit your team's ...
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="➤ EXAMPLE" %}
example of deliverable
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="★ RUBRIC" %}
| **✓- Below Standard** | **✓ Meets Standard** | **✓+ Exceeds Standard** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Description | Description | Description |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

