# 3.1 Solution Evaluation

TK  - still in progress

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="✓ TASK" %}
Your team will have people outside your team **playtest and evaluate your video game prototype**. This will help determine how well your game meets the project challenge criteria \(game is innovative, engaging, functional, usable, and balanced\). Receiving constructive feedback will allow you to identify issues and make improvements before the public presentation.

You’ll need to recruit 3-5 participants for the playtesting. Ideally, the participants should be similar to your target player persona \(especially in terms of gaming motivations and player experience goals\).

External playtesting of a game is similar to user testing of a website, app, or device. As a reminder, here are [instructions for conducting user testing](https://docs.idew.org/principles-and-practices/practices/design-practices/user-testing).

You’ll also have each participant respond to an online survey after playtesting your game. Here are the steps to **prepare your survey**:

1. Create a new folder called “Solution Evaluation” in your team’s shared Google Drive folder.
2. Save a copy of [this Google Forms survey](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fKrfaVmHQnGVecHKRbYR6FF-P9OitPnwEVA5tt05qPI) in that new folder.
3. Open your saved copy of the survey, and modify the end of question 5 to list the targeted gaming motivations for your team's game.

### **PLAYTESTING AND SURVEY**

The user testing of the smart device prototype will require each participant to complete 1-3 tasks by interacting with the smart device and its web app. Determine what these tasks will be based on what your functioning prototype can do.

You’ll need to start each testing session by briefly introducing the smart device \(without giving away clues to the task steps\). Depending on your specific device, you may need to trigger certain conditions for the participant \(e.g., activating a motion sensor, opening a magnetic switch, etc.\) to help simulate the context for the tasks.

* **Evaluation Findings:** Use [this template](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lQUSyjqKTbo1Pth34okLd43AZw2O_zkC7zYE1grwHv0) to summarize your findings from the playtesting.
* **Post-Playtesting Survey:** Have the participant respond to your survey after playtesting the game.

**To have a participant complete your survey:**  Open your survey, and click the preview icon in the upper right, which will allow the participant to submit their responses.

Each participant will respond using the same survey form. Google Forms will save the all the submissions, which you will be able to view and analyze later.

### ANALYZE SURVEY DATA

After all the playtesting sessions are completed, you’ll analyze the survey data.

Open the survey saved in your team’s Google Drive folder. At the top of the survey form, click on the "Responses" tab, which should default to showing the summary data from all submissions.

The summary will display a histogram \(similar to bar chart\) of the response distribution for each survey question:

* Responses categorized as 4 or 5 are **positive** because they indicate the participant either agreed or strongly agreed with the statement.
* Responses categorized as 3 are **neutral** because they indicate the participant neither agreed or disagreed with the statement.
* Responses categorized as 1 or 2 are **negative** because they indicate the participant either disagreed or strongly disagreed with the statement.

After each chart, you’ll see the written responses submitted by the participants to explain their ratings. You can compare these explanations against your team’s findings from your internal playtesting to see if the survey responses revealed any **new** issues that might need to be addressed. If so, add these new issues to your evaluation findings document.

**Create a summary document for each survey that shows the histogram charts \(in order\) of your team’s survey data.** If you hover over the upper right corner of a chart, you can click a copy icon, and then paste that chart into a document.

In the next assignment, you’ll use the evaluation results to make refinements to your smart device solution and product marketing website before the public presentation event.

### **❏ Deliverables**

Submit the following:

* Evaluation findings
* Summary of survey results \(histograms\)
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="➤ EXAMPLE" %}
example of deliverable
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="★ RUBRIC" %}
| **✓- Below Standard** | **✓ Meets Standard** | **✓+ Exceeds Standard** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Description | Description | Description |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

