# 1.3 Game Design Elements

TK - placeholder - in progress

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="✓ TASK" %}
Games have certain design elements that help define them as being games — whether it is a board game, a card game, a sport, a video game, etc. If you're going to create a game, you'll need to make design decisions about all the key elements of your game.

For example, we all recognize checkers, soccer, and Space Invaders as being examples of games. What do these have in common that defines them as being games?

We would probably agree that one element that games have is **players** — people that agree to participate in the game. Checkers has two players. Soccer features two teams of players. Space Invaders is a single-player game. Every game has one or more players as part of its design.

Game designers have come up with different ways to define the elements of games. In this assignment, you will define your own set of game design elements by constructing an _affinity diagram_.

An [affinity diagram](https://uxdict.io/design-thinking-methods-affinity-diagrams-357bd8671ad4) is a way to take a large set of information \(such as ideas, etc.\) and sort it into a smaller set of groups that reveal patterns and relationships.

Constructing an affinity diagram involves three basic steps:

1. **Record each idea** separately. If possible, record the ideas on index cards or sticky notes \(to make it easier to sort the ideas into groups and label the groups\). Otherwise, record the ideas as a list in a document.
2. **Sort related ideas into groups**. You can have as many groups — or as few groups — as you need, based on the patterns in the ideas.
3. **Label each group** to identify the pattern or relationship it represents. Add the group's label using a new card or note — or add the label to your document.

## Assignment

1. Work in a small group \(2-4 people\) to construct an affinity diagram of the elements that define games. It might help to focus on a small number of specific games \(such as:  checkers, soccer, Space Invaders, etc.\). What are the specific elements that define each game? Record your ideas/examples, sort them into groups, and label the groups. When finished, take a photo of your affinity diagram \(if you used cards or notes\) — or save a copy of your document.
2. Discuss your findings as a class. How similar are your groups?
3. Compare your findings to this [reference list of game design elements](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B8MTiM_lFG9TcjVsa21BR0FhbXc). How similar are your groups to these game design elements?
4. Use the reference list to analyze the design elements of an existing game by completing [this assignment template](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1UP6mGoubPeGvyJ1Yn6NVKLRNdg63RakZI_W3by-EK6w). As an example, here is an analysis of the [game design elements of Space Invaders](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B8MTiM_lFG9TOC1xVEdnSE1BbmM).

### **❏ Deliverable**

Submit the following:

* Document or photo of your group's affinity diagram
* 
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="➤ EXAMPLE" %}
example of deliverable
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="★ RUBRIC" %}
| **✓- Below Standard** | **✓ Meets Standard** | **✓+ Exceeds Standard** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Description | Description | Description |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

